Add BulkPutRoles API (#109339)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/rest-api/security/bulk-create-roles.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-bulk-put-role]]

> === Create or update roles in Bulk API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create or update roles in bulk API
```

or (preferred):

```suggestion
=== Bulk create or update roles API
```

to match [the other bulk security api](https://elasticsearch_bk_109339.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/security-api-bulk-update-api-keys.html)

Author: Great! Thanks!

> preview::["This functionality is in technical preview and may be changed or removed in a future release. Elastic will work to fix any issues, but features in technical preview are not subject to the support SLA of official GA features."]

Author: Ah great! Thanks! :)

++++
<titleabbrev>Bulk create or update roles</titleabbrev>
++++

Bulk adds and updates roles in the native realm.

[[security-api-bulk-put-role-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST /_security/role/` +

[[security-api-bulk-put-role-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To use this API, you must have at least the `manage_security` cluster
privilege.

[[security-api-bulk-put-role-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

The role management APIs are generally the preferred way to manage roles, rather than using
<<roles-management-file,file-based role management>>. The create

> or update roles API cannot update roles that are defined in roles files.

Reviewer: I think this sentence is a bad copypaste from the original - should clarify for the bulk context

[[security-api-bulk-put-role-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`refresh`::
Optional setting of the {ref}/docs-refresh.html[refresh policy] for the write request. Defaults to Immediate.

[[security-api-bulk-put-role-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

The following parameters can be specified in the body of a POST request
and pertain to adding a set of roles:

> `roles`:: (object) The roles to add as a role name to role map.

Reviewer: This reads as a little confusing because technically everything below it is a child of `roles`, and should be nested as such. I think you're possibly also missing a `<role_name>` param that would sit below `roles` and above everything else.

`applications`:: (list) A list of application privilege entries.

> `application` (required)::: (string) The name of the application to which this entry applies

Reviewer: Period missed on the original

```suggestion
`application` (required)::: (string) The name of the application to which this entry applies.
```

`privileges`::: (list) A list of strings, where each element is the name of an application
privilege or action.
`resources`::: (list) A list resources to which the privileges are applied.

`cluster`:: (list) A list of cluster privileges. These privileges define the
cluster level actions that users with this role are able to execute.

`global`:: (object) An object defining global privileges. A global privilege is
a form of cluster privilege that is request-aware. Support for global privileges
is currently limited to the management of application privileges.

> This field is optional.

Reviewer: Given that this field is not marked as `required` we don't have to say it's optional - again I realize this is just an artifact of the copypaste

```suggestion
```

                "version": 1
            }
        },
        "my_user_role": {
            "cluster": [
                "all"
            ],
            "indices": [
                {
                    "names": [
                        "index1"
                    ],
                    "privileges": [
                        "read"
                    ],
                    "field_security": {
                        "grant": [
                            "title",
                            "body"
                        ]
                    },
                    "query": "{\"match\": {\"title\": \"foo\"}}"
                }
            ],
            "applications": [
                {
                    "application": "myapp",
                    "privileges": [
                        "admin",
                        "read"
                    ],
                    "resources": [
                        "*"
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "run_as": [
                "other_user"
            ],
            "metadata": {
                "version": 1
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

> A successful call returns a JSON structure that shows whether the roles has been
> created, updated or was a noop in the same order as in the bulk request.

Reviewer: Avoid `noop` in prose

```suggestion
A successful call returns a JSON structure that shows whether the role has been
created, updated, or had no changes made in the same order as in the bulk request.
```

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "took": 45,
    "errors": false,
    "items": [
        {
            "result": "created", <1>
            "status": 201, <2>
            "_id": "my_admin_role"
        },
        {
            "result": "created",
            "status": 201,
            "_id": "my_user_role"
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 45/"took": $body.took/]

> <1> When an existing role is updated, `result` is set to `updated` or when no changes were made it's set to `noop`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> When an existing role is updated, `result` is set to `updated`. When no changes were made, it's set to `noop`.
```

<2> When an existing role is updated, `status` is set to `200`.

> Errors are handled individually for each role create or update and the API therefore allows partial success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because errors are handled individually for each role create or update, the API allows partial success.
```

> The following query would throw an error for `my_admin_role` but would be successful for the `my_user_role`.

Reviewer: why would it throw an error? if it's malformed we should say that, but if it's due to the context of the cluster then we should explain more about the hypothetical situation

Author: It would fail because the privilege doesn't exist. I'll add some context about that. Thanks for pointing it out!
